>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we're gonna start with our core
data structures which are objects and
arrays.
We're all familiar with objects and
arrays?
We've used them, great.
So one of the things
we're gonna talk about,
we're gonna talk about property access,
the dots and the brackets.
We're gonna talk about
destructuring, nesting, loops, and
nesting with destructuring.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Here we are with
our object literal, it's a person,
we're gonna introduce Mrs. White here.
Mrs. White is one of the core people,
one of our suspects for the murder.
Yeah, has anyone here played, Clue?
Okay, really, like not a lot of people?
It's like a pretty popular game,
there are eight or
so characters depending on the year.
Mrs. White, she is the maid or
the housekeeper of the mansion of Mr.
Body.
And so here we are, we're just
gonna construct a person object.
We're gonna give it a property name, and
we're gonna assign that value, Mrs. White.
And you can see here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: This is
an object literal notation, right?
So, you've seen probably both
of them their equivalent.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Do we
need this quotes here?
>> Unknown Female Student: No.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, why not?
>> Unknown Male Student: Just cuz it's,
[COUGH] one word.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, cuz it's
a string and it will automatically.
So, we can delete that if we wanted,
whoops, is this editable?
Maybe it's not, no, okay, awesome.
So we've seen the dot with
the access in assignment.
What are some other times you've seen the
dot in JavaScript aside from with objects?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How about
someone in the second row?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I guess cuz, one, two,
three nodes goes,
do you guys know how to play that game?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You get to go.
>> Unknown Male Student: When
you access some method.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, anything else?
A method on what, though?
So when you access a method on an object,
sure.
>> Unknown Male Student: Method
on that object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, what else,
where else have you seen a dot?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any
other dots out there?
So we see them with objects.
Have we seen them with functions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Oops.
>> Unknown Male Student: Like for
promise function to this?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, like a dot then.
Yeah.
Yeah, with a promise.
Awesome.
What about with arrays?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You're
nodding your head.
>> Unknown Male Student: If you're like,
trying to get the elements of the array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You use a dot for
that?
Or do you use a bracket?
>> Unknown Male Student: You
use a bracket.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Usually
you would use a bracket, okay?
Has anyone used a dot with an array?
Think hard, in your life.
>> Unknown Male Student: A nested object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so if you're asked,
if you're accessing it in a nested object,
that is true.
It's not where I was going, but-
>> Unknown Male Student: Array methods?
Yeah, like prototype methods?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
dot prototype, yeah.
>> Unknown Male Student: Using
native methods?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Is that online?
>> Unknown Male Student: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, using like
array dot push, yeah that length.
Are you guy's thinking that and
just not telling me?
Were you guys thinking that and
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You promise,
you guys are gonna be honest with me,
right?
Because I'm trusting in you.
Okay, what did you say Mark, I'm sorry.
>> Mark: String methods as well like,
dot split or.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, absolutely.
>> Mark: By the way,
I'm just relaying the stuff from online.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, cool, thank you.
>> Mark: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so, just
gonna put it in your head that anything
that ever uses a dot in
JavaScript is an object.
Just gonna leave that with you.
All right.
>> Mark: This person said,
the spread operator.
>> Mark: Yeah, ES6 fanciness.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm, yep.
Okay, so here where you're signing.
What's gonna happen on
this question mark area?
Can you guys see this?
So what's gonna be returned here?
What is this gonna,
how about in the front row?
Someone who hasn't said anything yet.
How about, grey sweater?
Everyone's wearing a grey sweater.
Third from the end.
>> Unknown Male Student: It's gonna error.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why?
>> Unknown Male Student: Unless it's
just going to return the value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah?
Now, return the value Mrs.
White which is a string.
Yeah.
>> Unknown Male Student: But
it doesn't like change the state or
anything?
I mean,
does it actually accomplish anything?
Just that expression?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's
just gonna return.
This is gonna evaluate to
a string that says Mrs.White.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does
that answer your question?
>> Unknown Male Student: Right, but
it doesn't do any assignment or anything.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Nope, assignment will
only happen if you explicitly do it.
Right?
With the equal sign?
Otherwise, it's a lookup.
Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right.
So one thing that
can be a little bit confusing is about
how our data is stored in memory.
So it's pretty simple when we have a
variable and we're storing a value, right?
We mention that this is gonna evaluate to?
>> Unknown Male Student: Mrs. White.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mrs. White.
And so who is a variable?
And so it's kind of like, I kind of
think of this as a filing cabinet or
a filing folder, file folder,
a folder, in a physical cabinet.
I don't know if you guys
have seen those lately.
But I think there's still around.
So this is the label, right?
The variable name and
inside holds a value, right?
And this value is a string,
it's a primitive value.
And so that's all fine and good,
that's easy to visualize, but
it gets a little bit more complicated
when we start talking about objects.
So we store primitive values
like the string, Mrs.
White, pretty much with the variable name.
You can think of it that way, it's not the
most accurate statement that I'm saying,
but in a practical sense,
that's what you need to know.
So that's by value, so
when I reference who comes to log it or
something, it will look in memory for
this label, and
it will return this value,
yeah, sounds familiar.
Yeah, okay.
So, what if, so there's that.
And so who's gonna be Mrs. White?
We reassigned it to Mr. White.
What happens?
So let's first take a look at
when we assign Mrs. White.
So we do something where, and again,
this isn't the most accurate
representation of memory, right?
And that's okay.
We don't need to have a super
accurate representation.
But if you understand this, it's good
enough for you to understand how it works.
I just wanna say that for
people who are gonna be like, wait, but
what about, and this, yeah,
yeah, but that's not important.
So we hold a reference to Mrs. White.
So we have our property name.
Person holds the property name, and
the property name holds
reference to the value, right?
And so we point to it, yeah?
Is this, we know, we're good?
Okay.
And then, right, so who,
it's just going to then be
stored separately as Mrs. White, right?
Because we're storing a primitive value.
It's gonna create this but
when we create, Mrs. White.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's a data
structure that looks something similar
to this in memory.
What happens when we reassign
person.name to Mr. White.
>> Unknown Male Student: Personal
reference is updated but who isn't?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we change our pointer to Mr. White.
Really Mrs. White would just,
this place in memory will get
garbage collected and will go away.
And now, person.name, if we reference
it down here, it would be Mr. White.
But who would be, Cameron?
>> Cameron: Would remain the same.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
it would remain the same.
And so, we call this storing
a value by reference, or by value.
Right, and this becomes more important
when we start passing things to functions,
and we go through sort of a journey
with data in our functions.
>> Unknown Male Student: And
this is by value?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we store permanent values by value.
What's a permanent value?
No, you're just making
a face like you didn't know.
I pointed at you, I apologize.
But I'm still asking the question.
Do you know what a primitive value is?
>> Unknown Male Student: I do not know.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Just ask
me a question or make a guess.
>> Unknown Male Student: Primitive value,
is it the first thing that assign or.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's a good guess.
Cuz it's like primitive.
It's first.
I see where you're going.
I can tell you're a poet.
So a primitive value is basically,
anything that's not an object,
well, okay, I shouldn't say that.
A primitive value is a string,
number, boolean, null,
undefined, these kind of things
were a non-primitive value would
be an object, array, a function.
Promise, things like that.
Yeah, so
primitive values get pass by value.
While non-primitive values
get pass by reference.
So we have these pointers in memory for
objects.
And that means, if you pass something,
or reference a primitive value,
it gets its own spot in
memory every single time.
While with functions and objects, you're
often sharing the same place in memory.
And so if you're changing that,
it can affect
things in unusual ways if you
aren't planning for that.
Yeah, has anyone-
>> Unknown Male Student: Could you
say that one more time?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, sure, so when
you store a non-primitive value somewhere
or you pass it to a function, for
example, It's passed by reference.
Which means that you're
passing like a pointer to it.
So you see how this arrow
is pointing to this value?
You're kind of passing
the pointer around to it.
And so, if you have multiple things
pointing, it's not making a copy.
So, if you're sharing one instance of the
object and so if you update that object,
and you're pointing to the same object
over here, that will also be updating.
And so
that can affect your code in unusual ways.
Yeah, cool.
But if you're passing
around primitive values,
you don't have to worry about that.
It makes a copy every time.
And we're all happy.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How
could this be tricky?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How about you, yeah.
>> Unknown Male Student: Well, in certain
contexts you might not expect for instance
that, that variable who would be,
you might expect that it would be updated.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Unknown Male Student: And it's not.
So you might expect it to
have a certain value and
in fact, it has a totally different value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
So if you expect primitive values and
non-primitive values to have the same
behavior, either way, you're gonna
have something that you don't expect.
And to be a good programmer, you wanna
understand your language enough so
that things don't happen that
you wouldn't expect as much.
I mean, it still is gonna happen.
Maybe, I don't know, I would be surprised.
I was gonna give you a time period about
when, how many years of JavaScript,
what you need before it stops doing
things that you don't expect.
But I'm like, wait a minute that's, I
think that it'll always do things that you
don't expect, and
then it will always evolve.
But you wanna minimize those things.
>> Unknown Male Student: Yeah, if you
pass an array to another method, and
that method updates that array,
you wouldn't expect it to be updated where
you're holding it outside that function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Unknown Male Student: Right,
that's the big-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Unknown Male Student: Caveat.
Versus if you pass a string around,
the string isn't
gonna be modified in both places in
that function and in you're copy of it.
Cuz they're copied,
primitive values are copied,
versus an array is just sort
of passed around willy-nilly.
That's why when you do these
array methods and stuff,
you usually wanna return a copy or
a copy calling that array.
That's a new array after that method.
So you're not accidentally
modifying it in both places.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, absolutely.
And that's why it's really
popular to, or
it's recommended that you don't
mutate your data structures, that you
just copy them and then return new copy.
So that you don't have the side effect of
your code being updated in various places.
So you pass your array, or you pass Mrs.
White to a function, right?
And this function changes as
a property to this object, right?
And you want them to be separate, you
would copy it and then return the copy,
versus changing the actual
original data structure.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does that make sense?
Cool.
And mutating just means updating and
changing.
And then immutable means that
you can't update or change it.
And I'm always entertained by just
how we have to have fancy words for
very simple things, but it's science.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great, awesome.
So what if we go through all of this blah,
blah, blah.
Our person is now Mr. White.
And again remember,
we're trying to figure out a mystery here.
So we gotta figure out the story,
we gotta know the facts.
So what is this gonna return?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Blue
shirt in the middle here.
>> Unknown Female Student: Looks
like it would return undefined
if story hasn't been-.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Unknown Female Student: Named anywhere.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, absolutely.
So it's undefined and so, my goodness.
What is happening?
Mr. White says, but
my wife is an array of sunshine.
She would never kill anyone.
Hmm, what a development.